[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROB DODSON: Hey
there, Polycasters.
It's Rob here.
Welcome back to the show.
So today, we're going to
be continuing our series
on accessibility by talking
about screen readers
and making sure that
the elements we create
have the right semantics
to be announced properly
by those screen readers.
Semantics is a pretty important
concept in web development.
But sometimes,
you got to wonder,
like, why is it important?
And really, who does it benefit
when I use good, semantically
rich elements?
And so I want to do
a quick demo here
using a screen reader so
you kind of understand
the importance of this topic.
So over in the
browser, I've just
got a native checkbox element.
And I'm going to start
up the screen reader that
comes built-in on my computer.
So if you're on a Mac, there's
a built-in screen reader
called VoiceOver, which you
can turn on with Command-F5.
If you're on Windows, you have
to download a screen reader.
There's a free one called NVDA.
Or there's another one called
JAWS which you can use.
Or there's even a Chrome
extension called ChromeVox,
which you can install.
And that's actually a
browser-run screen reader.
But over here on my Mac,
I'm going to use VoiceOver.
I'll turn on the screen reader.
SCREEN READER: VoiceOver
on Chrome, JS Bin, window.
ROB DODSON: And I'm going to
navigate over to this checkbox.
SCREEN READER:
Unchecked checkbox.
ROB DODSON: And you can
see that when I do that,
the checkbox was announced
as a "unchecked" checkbox
because it's a nice,
semantic-rich element.
I've used the correct
input tag here.
Now let's look at
what happens when
we try to do that with
the custom element
that we created in
the last episode.
So I'm going to turn
on my screen reader
and focus this item.
SCREEN READER: VoiceOver
on Chrome -group.
ROB DODSON: And you see
that the screen reader just
announced it as "group."
And that's because,
as I mentioned before,
when we create a custom
element, we're basically
extending the HTML language.
We're creating something that
has never existed before.
And that means that it doesn't
have any built-in semantics.
To the browser, a
custom element is really
no different from
a span or a div.
So there's nothing that
instructs it or instructs
our users that it needs
to be clicked upon.
So how do we add the appropriate
semantics to our elements
so that users who actually
rely on screen readers
can interact with them?
And there's a few ways that
you could go about this.
You could, of course,
just go and start reading
through a bunch
of specifications.
But if you want to get kind of
started right away, what I'd
recommend is checking out that
ARIA Authoring Practices Guide
that we looked at in
the previous episode.
So I'm going to go over there.
And I'm going to
look for the pattern
that I'm building, which
in this case is a checkbox.
So we'll go to the ARIA
Authoring Practices Guide.
We'll go over to the sidebar
and look for a checkbox.
And along with sort of
the keyboard interaction
support that we need
to add, you can also
see that there's a section
here on what it calls ARIA
Roles, States, and Properties.
So ARIA, if you've never
heard of it before,
stands for Accessible Rich
Internet Applications.
And it's basically
a set of attributes
that you can apply to
an element to kind of do
surgery on the
accessibility tree
and actually add in
additional semantics.
So if we look at the guidance
here on the Authoring Practices
Guide, it tells us
that our checkbox needs
to have a role of checkbox, that
it needs to have an accessible
label-- and we'll actually
cover this in the next episode--
and that our checkbox
when checked needs
to have aria-checked set to
true, and when it's unchecked,
it needs to have
aria-checked set to false.
And there's a few
other items in here
about building mixed checkboxes
and things like that.
We're not going to cover
any of that in this series.
But for today, what we
can do is we can make sure
that we get the appropriate
role and the appropriate check
states.
So let's switch back
over to our code editor.
And if you recall,
in the last episode,
I used this
hostAttributes property
in order to have my tag sort
of self-apply a tabindex
attribute.
And we can use the same property
to self-apply the appropriate
role.
So along with tabindex, we're
going to ask this element
to apply a role of checkbox.
And if we actually switch back
to Chrome and refresh the page,
we can open our DevTools.
We can verify that the element
is now applying that role.
So we see role equals checkbox.
And let's use our screen reader
and see what it announces now.
SCREEN READER: VoiceOver on
Chrome-- unchecked, checkbox.
ROB DODSON: So you can
see now that the screen
reader's announcing that this
is an unchecked checkbox.
It's actually even inferring
that it's unchecked because
of the role that we've applied.
In the world of ARIA, the role
is kind of the most important
attribute.
It is the thing
that you absolutely
want to make sure
that you get right.
There's a lot of ARIA
attributes which don't even
work if they are not paired
with the appropriate role.
So already, we've done
kind of the 80% thing.
We've gotten the correct
role, which is great.
The next thing we got to do
is add those ARIA check states
when we toggle our checkbox.
So going back to our code
editor, if you remember,
I have this checked property
that we're toggling on and off
whenever the user either
clicks on the element
or hits space bar.
So what we can do is
we're going to add
an observer to this property.
And I'll call my observer
function checkChanged.
And then I'll add a little
bit of additional space
down here just so
you can see things.
I'll define a
checkChanged function.
And I'm just going to
paste that in here.
So what we're saying is we're
going to call setAttribute.
We're going to set the
aria-checked attribute.
And we're going to
set it to whatever
the value of this.checked is.
And remember, we're
sort of toggling
that value inside of our
onTap handler that gets
run when someone clicks on it
with a mouse or hits space bar.
Now, calling
setAttribute in this way
is going to serialize
the value of this.checked
to a string, which is important.
In ARIA, whenever you set
a true or false value,
you actually have to do it as
an actual sort of literal string
of "true" or "false," which is
kind of an interesting quirk
of ARIA.
So that part looks good.
The last thing that I want
to do is sort of change
how this thing is styled.
Now, if you remember,
in the last episode,
we had this host selector
for the checked attribute.
And that's how we
actually figured out
when we wanted to
apply our check mark.
But something that
can be nice to do
is rather than rely on
a class or some sort
of random, made-up
attribute that we've
created in this case,
we could actually
rely on the state
of the ARIA value.
So I'm going to say any
time aria-checked is
set to true, that is when we
should apply our checkbox.
The cool thing here
is we're now creating
sort of a symbiotic relationship
between our ARIA attribute
and the actual visual
state of the element.
And we can use that
to verify that ARIA
is working appropriately.
So let's go back to Chrome.
We'll open up our DevTools.
We can see that aria-checked
is starting out as false.
If I hit Tab and
select this element,
we can see that that, then,
toggles to true, along
with the checked
attribute being applied.
And we can see that the
appropriate check mark
style is showing up.
And the last thing I want
to do is just try this out
with my screen reader.
So I'll uncheck the checkbox,
turn on my screen reader.
SCREEN READER: VoiceOver on
Chrome-- unchecked, checkbox.
ROB DODSON: Initially, it says
it's an unchecked checkbox.
When we hit spacebar--
SCREEN READER:
Checked, checkbox.
ROB DODSON: Now it updates the
state to a checked checkbox.
So now we've created a nice,
accessible checkbox that
works well for the keyboard.
It works well for
screen readers.
The last thing that we
need to do is add labeling.
But I'm going to save
that for the next episode.
Now, if you have any questions
about what we covered today,
please be sure to leave them
down in the comments below.
Or as always, you can hit
me up on a social network
of your choosing at #AskPolymer.
Thank you so much for watching.
I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]